---
title: What is DTPR?
description: An overview of the DTPR design system and its core components.
---

# What is DTPR and How Does it Work?

DTPR is a design system that reveals key elements of the technologies of our public spaces, including who manages them, what their purpose is and what kind of data is collected or processed through them. A design system generally consists of a series of components that can be reused in different combinations and allow you to manage design at scale, governed by a set of generally accepted principles and guidelines.

The DTPR design system includes:

**Taxonomy** — The taxonomy is how the visual language of DTPR is organised based on ongoing research conducted through design charrettes, expert consultations and field-based implementations with both place-managers and public users of DTPR. [Learn more about the taxonomy](/standard/taxonomy).

**Visual Language** — A visual language of icons, their associated shapes, and colours that form the "alphabet" of the system that is DTPR. [Learn more about the visual language](/standard/visual-language).

**Data Chain** — The Data Chain is a hierarchical information model that uses the taxonomy to present detailed information about a technology in a consistently structured way; one could consider this the "Nutrition Label" component of the DTPR design system. [Learn more about the data chain](/standard/data-chain).

## Sources

Fanguy, W. (2019, June 24). *A comprehensive guide to design systems*. Inside Design Blog. https://www.invisionapp.com/inside-design/guide-to-design-systems/
