---
title: The Visual Language
description: The shapes, colours, icons, text, and QR codes that make up the DTPR visual system.
---

# The Visual Language

The visual language of DTPR consists of five components:

## Shapes

These shapes form the container for the core visual components of DTPR and are associated with categories of the taxonomy as follows:

1. **Hexagons** — Purpose and Technology. Hexagons are also the shapes that you will typically feature on physical signage for DTPR. These shapes are typically arranged in a Honeycomb on signage for ease of association with the concepts.
2. **Circles** — Data and Processing
3. **Squares** — Storage and Access

## Colour

Used within a Shape and denotes the following:

1. **Yellow** - Indicates the collection of [personally identifiable information](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_data).
2. **Blue** - Used for [de-identified data](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De-identification), where personally identifiable information is collected, but no sensitive data that could identify an individual is retained.
3. **White** - Denotes scenarios where no personal identification data is collected.

## Icons

Developed to indicate specifics of purpose, technology, data, processing, storage and access. More detailed information on the visual language and its application as part of DTPR can be found in the [Signage](/implementation/signage) and [Shapes and Colours](/appendix/shapes-and-colours) sections.

The latest version of the taxonomy and its corresponding icons can be directly downloaded from [dtpr.io/taxonomy](https://dtpr.io/taxonomy). Simply right-click on the icons and choose to save them on your computer to access them.

## Text

Our research showed that as we move towards establishing a global standard, the public still benefits from text accompanying the visual language, both on signage and as part of the digital channel.

## QR Code

QR codes are used as part of the visual language to provide a gateway to digital channels associated with DTPR, either custom webpages depending on location, or the Helpful Places guide application.

## Sources

Wikimedia Foundation. (2023, December 17). *De-identification*. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De-identification

Wikimedia Foundation. (2023, November 13). *Personal data*. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_data
