---
title: Design Principles
description: The principles that guide the design, deployment, and communication of DTPR in public spaces.
---

# Design Principles

As a result of the research conducted in 2019 (more information can be found in the [Appendix](/appendix/how-dtpr-was-developed)), a set of design principles were established to support the ongoing development of DTPR. These design principles also set a rationale for the shapes, colours, and approaches to accessibility used as part of the standard.

This section will offer specific guidance for how to deploy DTPR. For more information on the design rationale for the shapes and colours that make up DTPR, please consult the [Appendix: Shapes and Colours](/appendix/shapes-and-colours).

## DTPR Design Principles

1. Ensure the concepts being conveyed are done simply and clearly through the icons and the information placed on signs.
2. Ensure there is a prominent way for the public to provide feedback on DTPR when it is deployed in public places in order to address variations in the acceptance of and comfort with new technologies on the part of the public.
3. As the iconography is still relatively new, ensure that it is augmented with written explanations or explanatory text accompanying the icons where appropriate.
4. Provide multiple pathways to learn more and provide feedback through physical signage, QR codes and URLs.
5. The purpose of the technology/sensor is considered more important than the type of the technology and should be prioritised in signage or other communications.
6. Information on the entities responsible for vetting and governing of the technology should always be included.
7. Information indicating if individuals can be identified through the data gathered by a technology should always be included and prioritised.

DTPR is typically deployed through a digital channel and physical signage that align with the design principles outlined above. The physical signage will have pointers to the digital channel and we are providing some guidance here on how to [create your own digital channel](/implementation/digital-channel) and for producing [physical signage](/implementation/signage).

## Finding Resources: The Open-Source Repository

All open-source assets associated with DTPR can be found in an [open-source repository](https://github.com/Helpful-Places/dtpr/tree/main). In this repository you will find all the requisite components required to deploy DTPR including downloadable icons, guides, worksheets and this guide to the standard.
